The academic syllabus from our college was the foundation which led me to the internships. As all of the module helped directly or indirectly for the better performance in my internship period. Some of the modules were felt as a key factor for me during my internship’s performance. I had learnt about basics of object-oriented programming, networking and html CSS in my first year of college. All of these topics were of great importance, and they heavily assisted me in completing the assigned tasks as a internee. In the second year the syllabus expanded our knowledge about database, programming web development etc. The php langauge was also introduced in where I got keenly interested and followed it to its framework Laravel which greatly assisted me in approaching the internship as web developer. In the final year the knowledge in database was greatly expanded the asp.net framework was extensively used which also broadened my knowledge in web development. I found many new terms and techniques while learning the different academic modules that greatly assisted me during my internship.

The main aim of the wrl (Work Related Learning) module is to enhance our communication skills and technical skills in the companies. Aim of the WRL was to place the students into the real world project work as per the rules and regulation of the company policies. The knowledge gained from the academic help us to understand the task easily and apply on it. The module that I have studied helped me a lot during my internship and task but somehow I got problem in some task because I had done internship in quality assurance. The first module, Logic and Problem Solving, was quite beneficial to me. I can think logically and track down the bug with the help of this module. This program teaches you how to analyze logically and solve problems, making a good impression on your boss. Similarly after learning software engineer in the second year, I was crystal clear about the concept of the test cases black box white box and many others testing. Every application has different test cases but if we have a good concept of software and manual testing and it doesn’t take a long time to complete the task. So it only took me a week to understand about the test cases and manual testing. During my placement I was very comfortable with writing test cases and testing application from different mediums .During the whole day I used to research on writing the test cases and test scenario. Writing the test cases and scenario wasn’t so hard and tough but was so risky. The QA engineer fully depend upon the test cases and If the test cases are missed to write than the bug may remain on the software. Soft skills and ethical behavior are also required at work, in addition to technical abilities. Professional Ethics and Behavior was a module that taught students how to operate in a firm while adhering to company rules and regulations, professionalism, and a code of conduct, among other things. All of these soft skills came in handy during my placement since I had a meeting with our supervisor and needed to communicate with him professionally and politely. And he used to talk about the projects that his company is working on during the conversation. The ethics class had instructed me not to tamper with or reveal company secrets.
Similarly, this internship/placement will have a significant impact on my future because I gained a few months of real-world experience, which will make it easier for me to get work. This placement has also aided me in improving my self-learning abilities, which will aid me in my future academic and professional endeavors. Before the placement, I had two interviews with supervisors, which taught me how to approach an interview and what types of questions to expect, which would aid me in my job search for a better position. This internship has also allowed me to obtain some professional experience, which will make it easier for me to find a solid career after I graduate.

3. Academic Context

Work Related Learning is a module where students are required to participate in an internship program where they are exposed to practical working environment in an IT industry. While in their internship period, student can learn different skills and knowledge an focus of their internship and prepare themselves with enough experience to work after their graduation During first and second year of university, we are required to study many different modules. These modules covers broad range of topics, some of these modules were especially helpful during my internship period. Inforgation systems, software engineering, databases, Professional ethics, issues, and computer law All these modules directly or indirectly helped me in my internship duration

The module, Information Systems which was in our first year of college was a very useful to help me get a better and faster grasp of react JS. The topics we studied in information systems includes of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. These are the most basic building blocks for web development During the study of this module, I had acquired good understanding of these components and was able to build something up with them. We were required to develop a portfolio website back then using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. This also improve my experience in React JS React is one of the most popular frontend development libraries based on JavaScript It is a library that has HTML, CSS, and JavaScript in its base React is famous for its properties of creating reusable components and changing data without reloading the page The module Databases also in some way helped me in my internship period For my internship, we had our database set up in Mongo Db which is a No SQL database system Instead of tables the data are stored in format of key value pairings, Even though the database systems and languages we leart in the module were SQL bed and were not directly used in my internship, the knowledge regarding various database and their working still somehow contributed to helping in my internship

Software engineering was one of the modules in second yes of my study. It dealt with staty of development of software using well defined and systematic practices principles and models in this module, we were taught the concept of software development Se cyce mal es to the ddlerent stages eat a software or a product es required to get through rom start to to completion to gener me phases to sothelum develprent